---
layout: post
title: "9. ARchitect"
description: "Wikitude moves the goalposts"
category: archie
tags: []
date: 2012-05-28 17:51:45
---
{% include JB/setup %}

On May 2, [Wikitude launched version 7.0 of their World Browser](http://www.wikitude.com/wikitude-accelerates-multimedia-content-social-graph-augmented-reality). The update involves a comprehensive UI revamp as well as a switch to rendering all camera view content using their [ARchitect Engine](http://www.wikitude.com/developer/documentation/architect).

The ARchitect Engine uses HTML and JavaScript to enable the AR camera views presented by the World Browser. It can be accessed by simply deploying a web page or service conforming to the ARchitect requirements, or by embedding the necessary functionality in a native app. It seems that the necessary functionality is initially very lightweight, and that the actual code that runs the ARchitect material is hosted online and accessed via the custom architect:// url scheme.

This shifts the ground under my planned app somewhat, as ARchitect is completely unrelated to the ARML-based service that I've been working on. I was expecting to adapt the ARML data to work in a native app, which would leverage Wikitude's map and camera views. ARchitect at present doesn't even enable a map view, although apparently that functionality is in development.

On the other hand, ARchitect seems quite powerful. You can add 'drawables' to locations (basically any type of vector or bitmap image), which could be interesting to try out with historical overlaying photos on the camera view; and I was planning to use my own MapKit-based functionality for mapping in any case. So broadly, it's probably a positive.

It exemplifies the dangers, though, of relying on someone else's platform to support your app's core functionality -- if I'd already invested time in the now-outmoded previous version of the Wikitude SDK, I'd be somewhat deflated.
