---
layout: post
title: "Musings"
description: "Thoughts regarding the camera view"
category: archie
tags: []
date: 2012-05-30 16:50:25
---
{% include JB/setup %}

####The camera view is a problem

As we discussed on the walk, it falls between two stools: 1) Because it devours battery, and isn't a lot of use for navigation, it seems to make sense to have it used very locally, but 2) The iPhone's location-finding capability is not accurate enough for very local use to really work.

I spent a bit of time today trying to overlay a photograph on an AR scene; it works, sort of, but the effect isn't particularly impressive or useful. I can't imagine anyone preferring it over just looking at a photo.

My second idea was to try overlaying the outlines of hidden or disappeared structures on the camera view (the path of the Antonine Wall, for example), but this is prey to the same locative innaccuracies. It's also quite hard to do within Wikitude's ARchitect Engine.

Annotating distant land features would work better, but there are dedicated apps to do that ([Panoramascope](http://panoramascope.com/), [Peak.AR](http://peakar.salzburgresearch.at/)), and it doesn't fit well with the notion of taking a heritage walk.

I think it's useful to note the attraction of historical photographs: both evaluation subjects said they would be particularly interested in seeing those, and indeed that such photos would be a specific attraction to the app. It's problematic to show photo thumbnails in the map view -- there isn't much space to do so, and the thumbnails interfere with wayfinding; showing a more limited set of thumbnails in the AR view could be practical, though, and not so strongly related to location that it would be made useless by some locative inaccuracy.

Now, here's what's really interesting: the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Scotland has an online archive, [Canmore](http://canmore.rcahms.gov.uk). Canmore can be searched by OS grid reference, with a radius in metres. That offers the possibility to **find historical photographs on-the-fly by location** and represent them in the camera view.

That's quite exciting.
